[[methods]]
== Methods

Methods are defined in the *methods* entry of a resource's
**resource-model**.

Only methods that are known to yada can appear in a resource's
definition. Each method corresponds to a type that extends the
`yada.methods.Method` protocol. This design also makes it possible to
add new methods to yada, as required.

The responsibility of each method type is to encode the semantics of the
corresponding method as it is defined in HTTP standards, such as
responding with the correct HTTP status codes (most other web frameworks
delegate this responsibility to developers).

Some methods can be implemented entirely by yada itself (HEAD, OPTIONS,
TRACE etc.). Most methods, however, delegate to some function or
functions declared in the method's declaration in the
**resource-model**.

[[method-semantics-by-method]]
=== Method semantics, by method

Each HTTP method has defined semantics. Often these semantics are
defined in the HTTP standards, other RFCs or, in the case of custom
methods, by you.

These semantics are important because they allow other web agents, such
as browsers and proxies, to inter-operate with your site.

Below is an explanation of the semantics for every method yada currently
supports and your responsibilities should you choose to provide the
method for a resource.

[[get]]
=== GET

Specify a function in *:response* that will be called during the GET
method processing.

If the resource exists, the single-arity function will be called with
the request context as its only argument.

It should return the response's body, which should satisfy
`yada.body.MessageBody` determining how exactly the response's body will
be returned.

[[put]]
=== PUT

[coming soon]

[[post]]
=== POST

[coming soon]

[[delete]]
=== DELETE

[coming soon]

[[head]]
=== HEAD

[coming soon]

[[options]]
=== OPTIONS

[coming soon]

[[trace]]
=== TRACE

[coming soon]

[[patch]]
=== PATCH

[coming soon]

[[handling-all-methods]]
=== Handling all methods

If you want to handle all request methods, or a complex set of them, you
can specify the special keyword `:*` in the methods section of your
resource model.

[source,clojure]
----
{:methods
  {:*
    {:response (fn [ctx] …)}}}
----

[[custom-methods]]
=== Custom methods

Custom methods can be added by defining new types that extend the
`yada.methods.Method` protocol.

[[brew]]
=== BREW

BREW is an example of a custom method you might want to create,
especially if you are building a networked coffee maker compliant with
RFC.

[source,clojure]
----
(require '[yada.methods Method])

(deftype BrewMethod [])

(extend-protocol Method
  BrewMethod
  (keyword-binding [_] :brew)
  (safe? [_] false)
  (idempotent? [_] false)
  (request [this ctx] …))
----
