[[reference]]
== Reference

[[resource-model-schema]]
=== Resource model schema

This is defined in `yada.schema`.

[[handler-schema]]
=== Handler schema

[coming soon]

[[request-context-schema]]
=== Request context schema

[coming soon]

[[protocols]]
=== Protocols

yada defines a number of protocols. Existing Clojure types and records
can be extended with these protocols to adapt them to use with yada.

[[yada.protocols.resourcecoercion]]
==== `yada.protocols.ResourceCoercion`

[coming soon]

[[yada.methods.method]]
==== `yada.methods.Method`

Every HTTP method is implemented as a type which extends the
yada.methods.Method protocols. This way, new HTTP methods can be added.
Each type must implement the correct semantics for the method, although
yada comes with a number of built-in methods for each of the most common
HTTP methods.

Many method types define their own protocols so that resources can also
help determine the behaviour. For example, the built-in `GetMethod` type
uses a `Get` protocol to communicate with resources. The exact semantics
of this additional protocol depend on the HTTP method semantics being
implemented. In the `Get` example, the resource type is asked to return
its state, from which the representation for the response is produced.

[[yada.body.messagebody]]
==== `yada.body.MessageBody`

Message bodies are formed from data provided by the resource, according
to the representation being requested (or having been negotiated). This
removes a lot of the formatting responsibility from the resources, and
this facility can be extended via this protocol for new message body
types.

[[built-in-types]]
=== Built-in types

There are numerous types already built into yada, but you can also add
your own. You can also add your own custom methods.

[[files]]
==== Files

The `yada.resources.file-resource.FileResource` exposes a single file in
the file-system.

The record has a number of fields.

Field

Type

Required?

Description

`file`

`java.io.File`

yes

The file in the file-system

`reader`

Map

no

A file reader function that takes the file and selected representation,
returning the body

`representations`

A collection of maps

no

The available representation combinations

The purpose of specifying the `reader` field is to apply a
transformation to a file's content prior to forming the message payload.

For instance, you might decide to transform a file of markdown text
content into HTML. The reader function takes two arguments: the file and
the selected representation containing the media-type.

[source,clojure]
----
(fn [file rep]
  (if (= (-> rep :media-type :name) "text/html")
    (-> file slurp markdown->html)
    ;; Return unprocessed
    file))
----

The reader function can return anything that can be normally returned in
the body payload, including strings, files, maps and sequences.

The `representation` field indicates the types of representation the
file can support. Unless you are specifying a custom `reader` function,
there will usually only be one such representation. If this field isn't
specified, the file suffix is used to guess the available representation
metadata. For example, a file with a `.png` suffix will be assumed to
have a media-type of `image/png`.

[[directories]]
==== Directories

The `yada.resources.file-resource.DirectoryResource` record exposes a
directory in a filesystem as a collection of read-only web resources.

The record has a number of fields.

Field

Type

Required?

Description

`dir`

`java.io.File`

yes

The directory to serve

`custom-suffices`

Map

no

A map relating file suffices to field values of the corresponding
FileResource

`index-files`

Vector of Strings

no

A vector of strings considered to be suitable to represent the index

A directory resource not only represents the directory on the
file-system, but each file resource underneath it.

The `custom-suffices` field allows you to specify fields for the
FileResource records serving files in the directory, on the basis of the
file suffix.

For example, files ending in `.md` may be served with a FileResource
with a reader that can convert the file content to another format, such
as `text/html`.

[source,clojure]
----
(yada.resources.file-resource/map->DirectoryResource
  {:dir (clojure.java.io "talks")
   :custom-suffices {"md" {:representations [{:media-type "text/html"}]
                           :reader markdown-reader}}})
----

[[glossary]]
=== Glossary
