[[sub-resources]]
== Sub-resources

Usually, it is better to declare as much as possible about a resource
prior to directing requests to it. If you do this, your resources will
expose more information and there will be more opportunities to utilize
this information in various ways (perhaps serendipitous ones). But
sometimes it just isn't possible to know everything about a resource, up
front, prior to the request.

A classic example is serving a changing directory of files. Each file
might be a separate resource, identified by a unique URI and have
different possible representations. Unless the directory's contents are
immutable, you should only determine the number and nature of files
contained therein upon the arrival of a request. For this reason, yada
has **sub-resources**. Sub-resources are resources that are created
just-in-time when a request arrives.

[[declaring-sub-resources]]
=== Declaring sub-resources

Any *resource* can declare that it manages sub-resources by declaring a
**:sub-resource**_ entry in its **resource-model**. The value of a
sub-resource is a single-arity function, taking the **request-context**,
that returns a new **resource**, from which a temporary handler is
constructed to serve just the incoming request.

Sub-resources are recursive. A *resource* that is returned from a
*sub-resource* function can itself declare that it provides its own
sub-resources, __ad-infinitum__.

[[path-info]]
=== Path info

When routing, it is common for resources that provide sub-resources to
match a set of URIs all starting with a common prefix, and extract the
rest of the path from the request's `:path-info` entry. This is achieved
by declaring a *:path-info?* entry in the *resource-model* set to true.

[source,clojure]
----
(resource
  {:path-info? true
   :sub-resource
   (fn [ctx]
     (let [path-info (get-in ctx [:request :path-info])]
       (resource {â€¦})))})
----

(For a good example of sub-resources, readers are encouraged to examine
the code for `yada.resources.file-resource` to see how yada serves the
contents of directories.)
